MICRO ’25, October 18–22, 2025, Seoul, Republic of Korea Yu Gong, Lingyi Huang, Haodong Chang, Rongjian Liang, Cheng Yang, Zhexiang Tang, Jiang Hu, and Bo Yuan
possible 𝐵𝑆sub, the corresponding ScT is built with the constraints
described by Eq. 1 - 6. Since all constraints are linear, we can ap-
ply piecewise linear approximation and solve the problem using
an MILP solver to find the corresponding 𝑠𝑖’s that minimize the
computation-related EDP, a bilinear term that can be linearized via
McCormick envelope [25]:
{𝑠𝑖 }opt = arg min
{𝑠𝑖 }
𝐿𝑝
comp × 𝐸𝑞
comp, (22)
where 𝑝 and 𝑞 are hyper-parameters setting the importance of
latency and energy, respectively. With the above-identified 𝑠𝑖’s, we
can specify ScT’s and further calculate the corresponding mini-
mized EDP cost for each 𝐵sub candidate. After preserving 𝐾1 pos-
sible 𝐵sub’s with the smallest𝐾1 𝐿𝑝
comp × 𝐸𝑞
comp’s, we further use
them and the corresponding 𝑠𝑖’s to build𝐾1 MeT’s. Again, an MILP
solver is applied to minimize the data traffic-related EDP cost:
{MeT𝐷
𝑖,𝑗 , MeT𝑆
𝑖,𝑗 }opt = arg min
{MeT𝐷
𝑖,𝑗 ,MeT𝑆
𝑖,𝑗 }
𝐿𝑝
traffic × 𝐸𝑞
traffic. (23)
The candidate list for 𝐵sub is then further shrunk by preserving
only 𝐾2 𝐵sub’s that correspond to the smallest𝐿𝑝
traffic×𝐸𝑞
traffic’s. Note
that for the training workload, another round of table construction
and 𝐵sub candidate reduction are needed.
Finally, intra-layer scheduling is applied to the remaining 𝐾2
candidates to update total latency and energy consumption after
considering the optimization within each hardware tile as follows:
𝐿Total = max
 ∑︁
𝑖
𝑠𝑖 × max
𝑗
 𝐿comp,𝑖,𝑗 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
 , 𝐿traffic +
∑︁
𝑖,𝑗
𝛽𝑖,𝑗
!
, (24)
𝐸Total = 𝐸comp, unit ×
∑︁
𝑖,𝑗
𝑠𝑖Workload𝑗 𝛼𝑖,𝑗
𝑢𝑖,𝑗
+ 𝐸traffic +
∑︁
𝑖,𝑗
𝛾𝑖,𝑗 , (25)
where 𝛼𝑖,𝑗 is the factor considering the actual hardware utiliza-
tion for processing sub-block 𝐵 𝑗 in State-𝑖. 𝛽𝑖,𝑗 and 𝛾𝑖,𝑗 are the
corresponding data traffic-related latency and energy consumption
associated with intra-layer scheduling. Here, 𝛼𝑖,𝑗 , 𝛽𝑖,𝑗 , and 𝛾𝑖,𝑗 are
obtained from the intra-layer scheduler. Thanks to the abstraction
of hardware tiles in inter-layer scheduling, the existing intra-layer
schedulers can be easily applied to our framework as a plug-in.
Remark 3 (Addressing Challenge #1: Unified Representation
of Core Scheduling Factors ). The ScT and MeT table formats,
together with sub-batch size selection (𝐵𝑆sub), provide a unified and
extensible representation of inter-layer scheduling behavior. These
tables explicitly record execution states and memory status, which
are determined by four design factors (E,P,R,B). This joint represen-
tation ensures that all key design factors are consistently captured
within a single framework—directly addressing Challenge #1.
Remark 4 (Addressing Challenge #3: Structured and Exhaus-
tive Scheduling via MILP ). The table-based formulation using
ScT and MeT naturally leads to an MILP, which encodes scheduling
constraints with high structural regularity. This enables exhaustive
exploration of the scheduling space using off-the-shelf MILP solvers,
offering both fast convergence and globally optimal solutions for
intra-block scheduling—effectively addressing Challenge #3.
6 Hierarchical Structure Optimization
After optimizing intra-block scheduling, the next step is to optimize
hierarchical block structure. This involves refining the arrangement
and organization of blocks to improve the overall scheduling effi-
ciency. To that end, we propose an iterative two-step solution:
Step-1: Graph Partition. In this step, the DNN model is parti-
tioned based on the dependency relationships between layers in its
computational graph. Specifically, layers are grouped into blocks
by examining these dependencies. If layers form a sequential de-
pendency chain, where each layer directly depends on the previous
one and only outputs its result to the next, they are combined into
a single block. For example, Layer-2 in Fig. 8 solely depends on
Layer-1, and Layer-3 solely depends on Layer-2, so Layers-2 and
-3 are grouped into Block-B. When a layer or block has multiple
dependencies or outputs its results to multiple layers or blocks, a
higher-level block is formed to capture these relationships. Addi-
tionally, each layer can also function as a single block, enabling
flexible sub-batch size optimization. Following these principles,
Block-A and Block-C are constructed to contain Layer-1 and Layer-
4, respectively, while Block-D is formed by consolidating Block-A,
B, and C, thus capturing all inter-block dependencies.
Step-2: Gradual Partition. This step optimizes overall schedul-
ing scheme by incrementally updating and optimizing lower-level
blocks. Initially, the workload of each partitioned block is set as the
corresponding FLOP counts, without considering tile utilization.
Similarly, the initialization of data traffic for each block does not
account for impact of potential optimization in lower-level blocks.
The optimization process begins with top-level block, for example,
Block-D in Fig. 8. From the perspective of Block-D, lower-level
blocks (Block-A, B, and C) serve as component layers. We optimize
the inter-layer scheduling for Block-D using the process illustrated
in Fig. 7, where the cost evaluation is based on the FLOPs and data
traffic information of component blocks. After finishing the sched-
ule optimization for Block-D, the newly obtained optimal cost is
compared with the initial cost (initially set to zero). If the difference
exceeds a pre-set threshold 𝜃, the scheduling for Block-A, B, and C
will be re-optimized. For each lower-level block, the batch size, allo-
cated hardware tiles, and available SRAM capacity may be updated
after optimizing the top-level block. These updated parameters are
then used in the schedule optimization for the lower-level block.
As shown in Fig. 8, cost-driven block partitioning process is
used to identify optimal block structure for each lower-level block.
Consider Block-B as an example. Since it consists of two layers,
two possible scenarios are evaluated: (1) Layer-2 and Layer-3 are
treated as separate blocks without forming a higher-level block, (2)
they form a hierarchical nested block. After optimizing for both
cases, block structure with lower cost is selected as optimal struc-
ture for these layers. This gradual partitioning is performed for all
hierarchical nested block structures until reaching bottom level.
Iterative Update. Once the optimization of lower-level blocks
is complete, the workload and data traffic for each block are de-
termined and passed back to the higher-level block. Based on this
updated information, the scheduling for the higher-level block is
re-optimized. This iterative procedure continues until a predefined
convergence condition for the top-level block is met.
7 Evaluation
7.1 Validation of Cost Evaluator
Crane is implemented in C++ for comprehensive scheduling ex-
ploration. To validate its cost model, we compare it to SET, which
reports less than 3% deviation from cycle-accurate simulations of
1259